Welcome back.
I have a new problem for you.
I'm using a Web site here called on Splash dot com.
It's an awesome Web site where you can actually download for free really good images.
Maybe you want to have a new background for your Web site.
Maybe a new background for your desktop.
Anyway I found this space man image and I've downloaded it and I'll link to this image as well.
Or you can pick whatever image you want from on Splash dot com and you'll see here that this image is
three point eight megabytes.
It's massive.
And maybe I want to bring it down in size maybe do a 400 by 400 a thumbnail that I can use for my profile
picture.
So people know that I'm an astronaut.
How can we do that.
Well let's go back to our code.
We have this Astro dot JPEG image and you can see over here I'm scrolling through it it's it's absolutely
massive.
OK.
So let's make this smaller.
I'm going to instead of pocket X say I want to grab the Astro dot JPEG image and we don't want to do
any of this so I'm going to remove that and first of all let's just print what the image sizes just
so we're clear.
So I'm going to run this and we see that.
Yep it's a pretty big image so all I'm going to do is say new image is going to be image dot resize
and again a top all that says 400 by 400.
And we've seen this before right.
So now if I save this let's say new image dot Save and I'll call it thumb.
Now dot fi save this and run this.
All right.
Look at that.
We have a thumbnail dot JPEG that's actually great.
Look at that it's tiny compared to the massive one we had.
But one thing that I don't know if you can notice is that because the image did not have the same width
and height.
What happened was it is actually a little bit compressed so it lost his aspect ratio.
The image looks kind of squished in.
So how can we fix that.
And this is a common problem with images right.
If we make things smaller and smaller or we change the aspect ratio let's say 400 by 200.
So if I save this and go to the image.
Well yeah look at the images all squished up.
How can we fix it well in this case so we can actually use a useful thumbnail method.
So instead of saying resize if you want to keep the aspect ratio we can say thumbnail and this thumbnail
will be 400 by two hundred so if I save and run this again we'll get an error non type object has no
attribute safe and that is because thumbnail actually doesn't return a new image it just modifies the
current one.
So in here we can just say image dot thumbnail and then we'll say image dot safe.
So if I run this and we go back to thumbnail look at that we have a thumbnail but it keeps the aspect
ratio so even though I said four hundred by two hundred it's going to try and do its best to keep that
aspect ratio and maybe not give the exact opposite that I want.
So let's just bring it back to 400 by 400.
Run it again.
And there you go.
We have our thumbnail and the astronaut is not squished.
Very very useful.
So the thumbnail one is really really useful maybe if you want to create a profile picture for Facebook
or Instagram or any other social media platform that you might have.
And it just gives a couple of width and height and this is the maximum value.
So it's never going to go over 400 and 400 but thumbnail is going to automatically do anything within
the range up to 400.
But keeping the aspect ratio so if I actually do here print image dot size and I run this you'll see
that that's exactly what happens.
It's intelligently deciding what the best size for the image is.
All right.
Let's take a break and in the next video we're gonna do a fun little exercise.
I'll see that one by.